---
tags:
    - master-thesis
create date: 2025-02-03
urls:
---

# Week four

## Goals

- [x] micro mesh construction paper
- [~] slang user guide
- [~] slang compute shader examples
- [x] gigi documentations/resources
- [>] draw triangle with gigi compute shader
- [~] direct x 12 basic concept

## 2.3

- [>] micro mesh construction - determine subdivision level
- [x] gigi shader examples

### Misc

#master-thesis-ideas base mesh level LODs? but how to deal with #master-thesis-challenges subdivision level diff within +-1 with other neighbors?

we can also do #master-thesis-ideas bash mesh culling on gpu-driven pipeline

## 2.4

- [>] quick test with gigi loading huge geometry
- [x] debug dmm toolkit

### Misc

#mt-solutions one of fixed subdivision algo used in micro mesh is `loop subdivision` 

#mt-issues for the example of `dmm-toolkit/simple/dmm-displacement`, it crashed when subdivision level goes up to 6 and 7 and back to "normal" when it's 8, micro triangle seems like collapse to base triangle when subdivision level exceed 8.

>No, it doesn't collapse to base triangle, it just hard to see because the `frame thinckness` for the each "micro triangle" is too large

may be subdivision level 6 exceed the maximum stride which make gpu fetch the wrong data?

one of the #mt-challenges is `create displacements map`, it take too much time during the create micro mesh process and too much memory are occupied when the subdivision level increase. and it's **performed in cpu side**, which might be way more slowdown when try to use **compute shader**

#mt-ideas use quad-tri to store and update micro vertices?

#mt-ideas is it possible to migrate displacements calculation from cpu to gpu? if we can compute all the data on gpu, `gpu driven micro mesh` will be a better title

#mt-solutions when subdivision level change, dispatch compute shader to compute the displacement value and then compress the value through compute shader as well to see how much performace we can save.

proper gpu driven pipeline should be `base mesh culling` -> `micro mesh tessellation` -> `create/update displacement map based on the tessellation level` -> `compress the displacements`

we can update the original buffer by adding or removing displacement scalar value when adding or removing vertices, but how? what kind of data structure we should use in gpu memory? **tree or graph**?

>May be it will involve thread conflicts?

It's a very complex system, make it full gpu-driven is really hard

`Quesionts`:

1. what stop them from creating displacements valur in compute shader? what's the challenge of making whole construction gpu-driven?

2. Wait a sec! how gpu deal with compressed micro mesh data?

## 2.5

- [x] work flow of micro map generation in code perspective
- [x] direct x 12 

### Misc

#mt-issues Nvidia GeFroce Driver Version `572.16` does not support non-40s, 50s card to run `dmm-toolkit`, use `553.64` instead.

#mt-challenges implement view-depend adaptive dynamic tessellation will be super hard, because the subdivision level among neighbors **have to within +-1** 

so `bary file` store the bary coord of micro vertices within each base triangle.

another #mt-challenges is `compress data`, because it happens in the cpu side, and it take time to compress the displacements data if the data amount is massive. 

how to break the limits of maximum subdivision level of micro mesh?

1. size of the compressed data
2. accelerate the compression of the data

when subdivision level increase to 11, full memory (128 GB) will be use for compressed data, in visual studio debug mode, process memory is up to around 280 GB.

// TODO #mt-info `workflow of dmm-displacement sample`:


## 2.6

- [>] PN triangle tessellation
- [x] dmm tool tessellation source code
- [x] load model in gigi

## 2.7

- [x] read ada whitepaper about the micro mesh engine
- [>] bash mesh tessellation part in dmm-toolkit
- [>] PN triangle tessellation
- [x] sync with Christian

### Misc

`Questions`

1. where does the displacement mapping happeng?

2. how we perform tessellation based on the micro mesh data structure. 

## Notes

[[pn-triangle_2025-02-06|PN-Triangle]]

## References
